doc: Add AWS ECS updating guide (#314)
TheThingsIndustries/lorawan-stack-docs: doc/content/getting-started/aws/ecs/updating/_index.md

---
title: "Updating"
description: ""
weight: 3
---

This page describes the steps for updating {{% tts %}} on AWS ECS.

<!--more-->

> Most steps involve updating a CloudFormation stack from our templates. Some steps involve some manual work.

Reviewer: `the templates`

> 
> Most steps involve updating a CloudFormation stack from the templates. Some steps involve some manual work.
> 
> ## Overview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> From AWS' point of view, updating {{% tts %}} can be divided into three parts:
> 
> 1. CloudFormation templates
> 
> 2. Docker images
> 
> 3. Migrations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From AWS' point of view, updating {{% tts %}} implies three operations described in the subsections below.
```

> ## Updating CloudFormation stacks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Updating CloudFormation Stacks
```

> Updating CloudFormation stacks can be done via the AWS console, using the "Create changeset" functionality. All stacks need to be updated in their numbering order. For example, a stack using template `1-1-vpc` needs to be updated before `1-2-bastion`, which needs to be updated before `2-1-db-aurora-master`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Updating CloudFormation stacks can be done via the AWS console, using the **Create changeset** functionality. All stacks need to be updated in their numbering order. For example, a stack using template `1-1-vpc` needs to be updated before `1-2-bastion`, which needs to be updated before `2-1-db-aurora-master`.
```

> Updating CloudFormation stacks can be done via the AWS console, using the "Update" and then "Replace current template" buttons. All stacks need to be updated in their numbering order. For example, a stack using template `1-1-vpc` needs to be updated before `1-2-bastion`, which needs to be updated before `2-1-db-aurora-master`.

Reviewer: I think we should recommend using `Changesets` and not directly `Update`.

Author: What do you mean? In this way you create a change set you can then inspect. Also, I assume that anyone doing this knows how to use CloudFormation.

Reviewer: There's an option to `Create ChangeSet` in the same dropdown. That's what we use internally and that's what we should recommend.

> Also, I assume that anyone doing this knows how to use CloudFormation.

When there are multiple ways to do something, let's officially recommend the safe way.

 If someone wants to directly press update and not wait for change sets,  that's their choice.

Author: I've changed this, although I really don't think that's what we should focus on in this documentation.

> Not all stacks require a replacement in each version update. Please refer to `UPGRADING.md`, which contains per-version changes in templates. Only templates mentioned in that file have changed in given version. Moreover use that file as a general guideline what changes to expect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not all stacks require a replacement in each version update. 

{{< note >}} Please refer to `UPGRADING.md`, which contains per-version changes in templates. Only templates mentioned in that file have changed in given version. Moreover use that file as a general guideline what changes to expect. {{</ note >}}
```

Reviewer 2: Also, link the UPGRADING.md you're talking about

Make sure deployed templates correspond to your {{% tts %}} version. When updating, pay extra attention to:
- new parameters
- removed parameters

> - parameters with changed possible values

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- parameters with changed values
```

Author: Here I mean that sometimes in old version a parameters could have values `A`, `B` or `C`, whereas in the new version it can have `A`, `D` or `E`.

as default parameters might not be valid in context of your deployment.

> ### `2-5-db-timescale`

Reviewer 2: Can you please add a short sentence as a simple introduction explaining why you are talking about these specific templates?

> This template describes an EC2 machine with EBS storage. Currently AWS does not permit replacement updates on EC2 machines with EBS volumes attached. Continuing with update might result in data loss. For this reason examine carefully what changes AWS wants to perform while updating this stack, and potentially apply (some of them) them manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This template describes an EC2 machine with EBS storage. Currently, AWS does not permit replacement updates on EC2 machines with EBS volumes attached. Continuing with update might result in data loss. For this reason, you will need to carefully examine what changes AWS wants to perform while updating this stack, and manually apply some of them.
```

> As machine image, we use the newest Amazon Linux 2 image. This means that most likely AMI is going to change between two consecutive releases of {{% tts %}}, and upon update AWS will try to replace the EC2 machine. Instead you should update the software on that EC2 machine manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As machine image, we use the newest Amazon Linux 2 image. This means that AMI is most likely going to change between two consecutive releases of {{% tts %}}, and upon update AWS will try to replace the EC2 machine. However, you should update the software on that EC2 machine manually instead.
```

### `5-1-ecs-cluster`

> In this template we use an autoscaling group. Updates to `LaunchConfiguration` do not cause any effect on already running machines created using said `LaunchConfiguration`. This means that if this template contains changes, for example different `UserData` or an updated AMI image, you should examine changes and apply them manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this template we use an autoscaling group. Updates to `LaunchConfiguration` do not cause any effect on already running machines that were created using said `LaunchConfiguration`. This means that if this template contains changes, e.g. different `UserData` or an updated AMI image, you should examine changes and apply them manually.
```

> Please remember that both `5-1-ecs-cluster` and `2-5-db-timescale` use bare Amazon Linux 2 images. This should make it easy to decide whether you actually need to update the machines, and if yes, how exactly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< note >}} Make sure to remember that both `5-1-ecs-cluster` and `2-5-db-timescale` use bare Amazon Linux 2 images. This should make it easy to decide whether you actually need to update the machines, and if yes, how exactly. {{</ note >}}
```

Reviewer 2: Can you elaborate this a bit? I don't understand why this fact (that you use bare Amazon Linux 2 images) makes it easy to decide if machines need an update, and especially how to perform an update

> ## Docker images

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Changing Docker Images
```

> Templates `5-x` create ECS services, and they use Docker images. For this reason when updating `5-x` stacks don't forget to change used Docker images to newer ones. Since `5-x` stacks have images as parameters, don't forget to update them, even if they aren't mentioned in `UPGRADING.md`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Templates `5-x` create ECS services, and they use Docker images. For this reason, when updating `5-x` stacks, do not forget to change used Docker images to newer ones. Since `5-x` stacks have images as parameters, do not forget to update them, even if they are not mentioned in `UPGRADING.md`.
```

## Migrations

> When updating to a newer version, sometimes `CHANGELOG.md` might mention that a migration this needed. When updating ECS-deployed {{% tts %}}, the correct moment to perform these migrations is right after updating stack `5-2-ecs-ops`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When updating {{% tts %}} to a newer version, the `CHANGELOG.md` might mention that a migration is needed. When updating an ECS-deployed {{% tts %}}, the right moment to perform these migrations is right after updating `5-2-ecs-ops` stack.
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, we do publish release notes on docs page now: https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/whats-new/. Can you use that instead of CHANGELOG.md if external users cannot access it? Also, can you shortly mention which migrations can be needed in the first sentence?

> When updating to a newer version, sometimes `CHANGELOG.md` might mention that a migration this needed. When updating ECS-deployed {{% tts %}}, the correct moment to perform these migrations is right after updating stack `5-2-ecs-ops`.

Reviewer: External users don't have access to the `CHANGELOG.md`. I think we publish the changelog already on docs right @benolayinka ?

Author: Yeah, I've linked to Release Notes. But what should I do about `UPGRADING.md`?

Reviewer 3: ECS customers should get those too indeed

Reviewer: Those are already bundled along with the templates; https://thethingsindustries.s3.amazonaws.com/public/cloud/$(version)/UPGRADING.md

> Migrations are performed using `migrate` commands. Those can be run similarly to `init` during initial deployment. See [Database Operations]({{< relref "../database-operations" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Migrations are performed using `migrate` commands. Those can be run similarly to `init` commands during initial deployment. 

> See [Database Operations]({{< relref "../database-operations" >}}) for detailed info about migrations.
```
